(DOCSP-11027): Node & React Native MongoDB Data Access (#371)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/react-native/mongodb.txt

Find a Single Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can find a single document using :js-sdk:`collection.insertOne() <Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#findOne>`.

The following snippet finds a single document from the a
:ref:`collection of documents that describe plants for sale in a group of stores
<react-native-mongodb-example-dataset>` where the plant document's ``type``
field contains the string value "perennial":

.. code-block:: javascript
   
   const queryFilter = { type: "perennial" };
   const perennialResultDocument = await mongoCollection.findOne(queryFilter);
   console.log(perennialResultDocument);

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. code-block:: shell

   {
     _id: 5f1f4266e0ef86239b6c416c,
     name: 'venus flytrap',
     sunlight: 'full',
     color: 'white',
     type: 'perennial',
     _partition: 'Store 42'
   }

Find Multiple Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can find multiple documents using :js-sdk:`collection.insertOne() <Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#findMany>`.

The following snippet finds all documents in a
:ref:`collection of documents that describe plants for sale in a group of stores

> <android-mongodb-example-dataset>` that contain a field named

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<react-native-mongodb-example-dataset>` that contain a field named
```

the first document that matches the query:

.. code-block:: javascript
   
   const queryFilter = { color: "green" };
   const deleteResult = await mongoCollection.deleteOne(queryFilter);
   console.log(deleteResult);

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. code-block:: shell

   { deletedCount: 1 }

Delete Multiple Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can delete multiple items from a collection using
:js-sdk:`collection.deleteMany() <Realm.RemoteMongoDBCollection.html#deleteMany>`.

The following snippet deletes all documents in a
:ref:`collection of documents that describe plants for sale in a group of stores
<android-mongodb-example-dataset>`
that match the query filter that matches documents containing both
a ``sunlight`` field value of "full" and a ``type`` field value of
"annual".

.. code-block:: javascript
   
   const queryFilter = {
     sunlight: "full",
     type: "annual",
   };
   const deleteManyResult = await mongoCollection.deleteMany(queryFilter);
   console.log(deleteManyResult);

Running this snippet produces output resembling the following:

.. code-block:: shell

   { deletedCount: 2 }

> .. _android-mongodb-aggregation-pipelines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _react-native-mongodb-aggregation-pipelines:
```
